## 1. Introduction

#### 1.1. Signing-up for RSC

 1.1.1. Players must have their own discord account, and join the RSC Discord Server with it (https://discord.gg/rsc) 1.1.2. Players and members of the RSC Discord Server are expected to follow behavioral guidelines while participating in the RSC Discord Server, RSC Matches, and in communication with other Players and Staff of RSC. These guidelines and punishments are kept up-to-date here 1.1.2.1. Admins or Moderators may require a player to change their name or profile picture if it is deemed to be inappropriate. 1.1.3. Players should pay attention to the notices sent out by the Admins and/or read previous notices to find the most recent Season sign-up form. 1.1.3.1. Players cannot sign up for the current/upcoming Season after the sign-up deadline, which will be announced by the Admins. 1.1.3.2. Players will have the option to sign-up for Permanent Free Agency after the draft for the current Season. 1.1.4. Players cannot sign-up for RSC with more than one discord account. 1.1.5. Players must disclose all of their accounts used to play Rocket League in the signup form, whether they are regularly used or not, regardless of platform. Failure to do so may result in consequences. 1.1.6. All players signing up to be drafted are required to play a set number of competitive standard (3v3) Rocket League games as defined by admins on at least one of their reported accounts, all in the current or most recently completed Rocket League season. They have until the inactive check ends to complete these games. 1.1.6.1. If the current Rocket League season has been going on for less than a month, then the competitive standard games can be from the prior two rocket league seasons instead. 1.1.6.2. Players who wish to sign up midseason for PermFA will not be eligible to be added as permFAs unless they have completed the required number of competitive standard games in the current or most recently completed Rocket League season. 1.1.7. Admins, General Managers, and Staff members can also be Players. 1.1.8. When a player signs up for a season they will be draft eligible unless they finished the last season as a free agent. 1.1.9. Leaving the RSC Discord or abandoning your team while under contract or temporarily subbing on a team will result in punishment of up to a one-season playing ban to be determined by the ModMail team. 1.1.9.1. Players who are not in the server are subject to being removed from the league at the discretion of the Admins. 1.1.10. When a player returns to the league as a FA (took the previous season off), they must remain FA for at least 24 hours.


#### 1.2. Playing in RSC

 1.2.1. Players may play under any Rocket League account they have registered with RSC, so long as the name of the account matches their name in the discord. If you are using an account which cannot match your RSC discord name, you must submit this temporary name to the staff at least 1 hour in advance of an RSC match or event. 1.2.1.1. If any of a player’s accounts are banned by Psyonix, the player is not allowed to participate in any RSC matches or events for the duration of the ban. Attempting to circumvent this may result in match bans. 1.2.1.2. Player names may only contain letters A through Z (upper and lowercase), numbers 0-9, and the following special characters: ~!@#$%^&*()-_=+[]{};:’”,.<>/? \ | Any invalid characters will result in a wrong name strike 1.2.1.3. If a player wishes to change their League discord name, they may submit the request by sending a DM to the Modmail bot. Name Changes are limited to 2 per season, unless extenuating circumstances (e.g a platform change) are presented and accepted by the admins. All name changes are at the discretion of admins. 1.2.2. Matches are always scheduled for Mondays and Wednesdays at 10:00pm ET. Except in the case of playoff matches, official streamed matches, or rescheduling. 1.2.2.1. Players who regularly have attendance issues may be removed from the league at the discretion of the admins. 1.2.3. Members of RSC who believe another member has broken the behavioral guidelines, whether in a game or in the discord server, should collect relevant screenshots or other media and submit this information to the Mod Committee via ModMail for evaluation. 1.2.3.1. Members of the RSC discord who believe any rules have been incorrectly applied to them should submit an appeal through ModMail where they will be given more information on how to proceed. 1.2.4. Players may not use any game exploits during league play. This applies to all bugs and exploits which may or may not provide a competitive advantage. 1.2.4.1. Any use of game bugs or exploits will result in a player ban. The duration and appeal process for this ban will be at the discretion of the League Admins. 1.2.4.2. Any use of add-ons providing a competitive advantage will result in a player ban. The duration and appeal process for this ban will be at the discretion of the League Admins. 1.2.4.3. In the event of a question about competitive integrity, League Admins will make a ruling which will be considered final.


## 2. League Format

#### 2.1. Tiers

 2.1.1. From highest to lowest RSC MMR, the tiers are Premier, Master, Elite, Veteran, Rival, Challenger, Prospect, Contender, and Amateur. 2.1.2. Each franchise can have up to one team in each tier.

#### 2.2. The Draft

 2.2.1. The draft is held on an Admin-selected date and time. 2.2.2. Admins reserve the right to suspend the draft due to time constraints, and to reschedule the remainder of the draft. 2.2.3. All players who sign up will be researched by the Numbers Committee prior to the draft for data about their MMR. This data will be shared openly with all GMs/AGMs prior to the draft. 2.2.4. Free agents that are not signed by a franchise by the given deadline date become draft eligible. 2.2.5. The draft is divided into one section for each tier. 2.2.6. Players are placed into the draft section based on which tier they are assigned by the league. 2.2.7. The draft order and rounds are snake-style. 2.2.8. Franchises will draft players until all available players have been drafted. 2.2.9. Franchises are required to have at least one representative present to announce their draft picks. This representative can be a GM, AGM, or an indicated player when no GM/AGMs are available. 2.2.9.1. Representative picks are made as if the GM had made them, and are considered official. Any part of the draft rules which apply to GMs/AGMs will also apply to the selected player during the draft. 2.2.10. Each Franchise will receive a pick in every round of the draft for all tiers in which they have a team. 2.2.11. Franchises who have signed players and players on-contract before the draft must use draft picks on those players. These fall into rounds specified by league staff. 2.2.11.1. Franchises must also use draft picks to retain playing GMs/AGMs. 2.2.12. Franchises may promote players pre-draft before the resigning deadline. 2.2.13. During the offseason, a team must have the required keeper picks for all players on their roster at the re-signing deadline. Any players for which a team does not have a valid pick will be released to free agency at the re-sign deadline. 2.2.13.1. If a franchise doesn't have enough keeper picks for their players, they have until re-sign deadline to decide which player(s) goes to free agency.


 2.2.13.1.1. If they can't make a decision between the players, the lowest MMR player will be sent to free agency. In the event they have the same MMR, then the most recently signed/re-signed players will be sent to free agency. 2.2.13.2. This is not considered a cut, and if the team acquires a pick that would enable them to keep the player, they may sign them before the sign deadline without having to wait two match days. 2.2.13.3. Between the re-sign deadline and the close of transactions prior to the draft, a team must have a valid pick for a free agent prior to signing. 2.2.13.4. Franchises may use a higher-round draft pick than required to keep desired players. 2.2.14. All draft pick selections must be legal and executed by the Transaction Committee (and Admins in extreme circumstances). 2.2.15. Draft pick order is determined by a random marble race, per-tier 2.2.15.1. Teams that made the playoffs in the previous season will get two marbles. 2.2.15.2. Teams that did not make the playoffs in the previous season will get three marbles. 2.2.15.3. Teams that did not compete in the previous season will get four marbles. 2.2.16. At the re-sign deadline, picks not being used to retain players will be removed from the draft board in descending order until the number of picks in a tier's draft matches the number of players in that tier. 2.2.16.1. If players continue to drop out after the re-sign deadline, picks will continue to be removed in descending order at the time the players drop out, but only picks not being used to retain players will be removed this way 2.2.16.2. If a franchise does not select a player in a reasonable timeframe as determined by League Staff, or is unable to continue the draft, their pick(s) will be selected by League Staff based on the highest available RSC MMR player.

#### 2.3. Preseason

 2.3.1. Preseason lasts from the season’s draft until the official Roster Lock date. 2.3.2. There are 3 pre-season matches scheduled after the draft. 2.3.3. First Cut Day is one day prior to the second pre-season match at 9:59pm ET. Franchises must cut all teams down to 5 players. 2.3.4. Second Cut Day is one day prior to the third pre-season match at 9:59pm ET. Franchises must cut all teams down to 4 players. 2.3.5. Roster Lock is 11:59pm ET on the day before the 1st match day.


#### 2.4. Regular season

 2.4.1. During the season, each team competes in matches against other teams in their tier. Each of these matches are official and will count towards standings, stats, etc. 2.4.1.1. Each game of a match counts towards standings, the result of a whole match is not significant otherwise. 2.4.2. If teams have the same regular season win percentage, ties between the teams will be resolved using the following tiebreakers: 2.4.2.1. Head to head record. 2.4.2.2. Record against in-division opponents (if applicable). 2.4.2.3. Record against in-conference opponents (if applicable). 2.4.2.4. Record against common opponents. 2.4.2.4.1. For common opponent ties that involve teams which play an unequal amount of matches between common opponents, win percentage against each common opponent will be used in an average per common opponent. 2.4.2.5. Overall goal differential. 2.4.2.6. Goal differential against in-division opponents (if applicable). 2.4.2.7. Goal differential against in-conference opponents (if applicable). 2.4.2.8. Goal differential against common opponents. 2.4.2.9. Randomly chosen 2.4.3. All in-division ties will be broken first, remaining teams who are still tied will then be broken using the previously listed tie-breaking rules. 2.4.4. Matches can be rescheduled to any date/time beforehand, or as late as 11:59pm ET on the originally scheduled day for the match. 2.4.4.1. Both teams must agree to a reschedule, and both franchises must announce the new scheduled time in their transaction channels. 2.4.4.2. If the match is rescheduled, the new match time will be treated as equivalent to the original match time for the purposes of all rules contained in this document. 2.4.4.3. There is no limit to the number of times a match can be rescheduled. 2.4.5. Should special circumstances occur, a contingency day can be used to reschedule matches if sanctioned by Admins. (eg. natural disasters, regional power outages)

#### 2.5. Postseason

 2.5.1. Playoffs will begin on the first match day after the conclusion of the applicable tier's regular season. 2.5.1.1. Playoff matches can have a scheduled start-time as early as 9:30pm ET or as late as 10:30pm ET. 2.5.1.2. In some cases, teams will be expected to play two playoff matches in one match day.


 2.5.2. During the postseason, the higher seed is the home team, and should create the lobby. All other normal rules for matches still apply. 2.5.3. Playoff matches are played as best-of-5 series until the semi-finals, semi-finals and finals will be played as a best-of-7 each. 2.5.3.1. A best-of-5 series is played in a 2-2-1 format. Meaning two home games, two away games, and one home game. 2.5.3.2. A best-of-7 series is played in a 2-2-1-1-1 format. Meaning two home games, two away games, one home game, one away game, and one home game. 2.5.4. Teams can qualify for playoffs in three ways, depending on their tier structure. 2.5.4.1. Tiers with conferences and divisions award playoff seeds to each division’s winner, as well as one additional playoff seed to the next best team in their conference, per division. 2.5.4.2. Tiers with conferences and no divisions award playoff seeds to the teams in the top half of each conference. 2.5.4.3. Tiers with no conferences and no divisions award playoff seeds to the teams in the top half of the tier. 2.5.5. Admins must create and announce each tier’s playoff bracket-structure and match schedule before the regular season begins. 2.5.5.1. Tiers that have a wildcard round will be reseeded in the quarterfinal round such that the highest seed remaining plays the lowest seed remaining, and so on for all quarterfinal round matches. 2.5.6. Once all playoff matches are completed, the league enters the off season.

## 3. Game Rules

#### 3.1. Match Creation

 3.1.1. The home team creates a server, following the guidelines below. 3.1.2. Servers must be made with default server settings. 3.1.2.1. Team colors for the lobby must be default colors. 3.1.2.2. Bots must be turned off. (Refer to 3.3.1.2) 3.1.2.3. Use 3v3 rather than 4v4 team sizes (Refer to 3.3.1.1) 3.1.3. Both teams must be named as their RSC team names in the server. The selection by the home team of which is blue or orange does not matter, but do not change it between games in a match. 3.1.4. The home team selects whether the server used for the first two games of the match are US East or US West. 3.1.5. The away team selects whether the server used for the last two games of the match are US East or US West. 3.1.6. Credentials for matches are available via the “?match” command located in the #bot-input channel of the RSC Discord server. In the event the


 command is not functioning, admins will provide instructions for how to proceed. 3.1.7. The home team chooses the map(s) used for the match. 3.1.8. The following maps are legal for league play. Any maps or map variants not specified as legal are illegal for use in league play. 3.1.8.1. DFH Stadium, DFH Stadium (Day), and DFH Stadium (Stormy) 3.1.8.2. Urban Central, Urban Central (Dawn), and Urban Central (Night) 3.1.8.3. Mannfield, Mannfield (Night), and Mannfield (Stormy) 3.1.8.4. Beckwith Park, Beckwith Park (Midnight), and Beckwith Park (Stormy) 3.1.8.5. Champions Field and Champions Field (Day) 3.1.8.6. Utopia Coliseum and Utopia Coliseum (Dusk) 3.1.8.7. Wasteland and Wasteland (Night) 3.1.8.8. Neo Tokyo 3.1.8.9. AquaDome 3.1.8.10. Farmstead and Farmstead (Night) 3.1.8.11. Salty Shores and Salty Shores (Night) 3.1.8.12. Forbidden Temple and Forbidden Temple (Night) 3.1.8.13. JUST TO BE CLEAR. Maps or map variants not specified as legal are illegal for use in league play. 3.1.9. A team can request for a map to be changed before the kickoff. 3.1.9.1. If the home team creates a match on an illegal map, a remake to a legal map was requested, and the home team refuses to change the map, the rules for FF based on match creation will take effect (Refer to 3.2.3 for FF conditions).

#### 3.2. Match-Joining Procedures

 3.2.1. In the case of confusion of rules, procedures, or forfeit conditions, teams are strongly encouraged to take screenshots or otherwise document the situation to-be presented to staff through ModMail immediately. 3.2.2. When the home team creates the server, they must ping the away team in the match-check-in channel once the server is created. Only when the ping is made is the home team assumed to be ready to play. 3.2.3. A forfeit counter will start at least 5 minutes past the scheduled game time for any team that is late or not showing up, once their opponent has notified them in #match-check-in. Every full 5 minutes that the forfeit counter runs will result in one game being forfeited by the team who has not shown up. 3.2.3.1. In the event the home team has not communicated, after the 5 allotted minutes from the scheduled start time, the away team must ping the home team in #match-check-in and state that a 5-minute forfeit timer has started. 3.2.3.2. The team which is present should continue notifying the other team’s players in #match-check-in every 5 minutes that the timer runs.


 3.2.4. The away team must begin joining their appropriate team before the home team can do so. If the away team is not the first to join a team in the server, the server must be remade. 3.2.5. If a team is playing in a second match on the same day, the home team has 10 minutes from when the scheduled time starts to create the server and notify the opposing team through #match-check-in. Forfeit rules are then applicable as to rule 3.2.3. If a team cannot make the scheduled time, said scheduled time can be adjusted at admin's discretion.

#### 3.3. Mid-Match Rules

 3.3.1. The following are scenarios that can potentially lead to a forfeit: 3.3.1.1. Joining the lobby or game while it is in progress. 3.3.1.1.1. If a player on one of the teams actively playing joins the lobby or game while it is being played, and they were not one of the starting players for that game, then the game will be forfeit. 3.3.1.1.2. If someone who is associated with the franchise joins the lobby or game while it is being played, then the game will be forfeit. 3.3.1.1.3. If someone who is not affiliated with either franchise joins the lobby, the match result will stand. If the unaffiliated person was a player from another team, that player will receive a one match suspension. 3.3.1.1.4. If any of the above occur within 1 minute of the game being started and if a goal has not been scored, then the server should be remade and the game restarted in lieu of a forfeit. 3.3.1.2. Bots join the game. 3.3.1.2.1. If a bot or multiple bots join a game that is currently in progress, the home team will forfeit that game. 3.3.1.2.2. If a bot or multiple bots join a game that is currently in progress and it is within 1 minute of the game being started and if a goal has not been scored, then the server should be remade and the game restarted in lieu of a forfeit. 3.3.1.3. If there is someone in the lobby at the start of the series who does not have permission to be there. 3.3.1.3.1. If there is someone in the lobby who is not one of the 8 active players for a team on that match night, and is also not a GM or AGM for one of the active franchises, then a game will be forfeit. 3.3.1.3.2. In the event multiple games are played in violation of 3.3.1.3.1, only the first game of the series will result in a forfeit. 3.3.1.3.3. Official RSC streamers do not violate this rule.


3.3.1.3.4. Other people are allowed to spectate if the other team gives written permission. 3.3.1.4. Any team can decide to forfeit any match for whatever reason before the match has started, or can choose to forfeit their remaining games after a match has started. 3.3.1.5. If a team cannot field a full roster of 3 players for a match, they can either play with a player (or players) down, or forfeit the match. See substitution rules in 5.6 and 5.7 to avoid this scenario. 3.3.1.5.1. Games that are played with a team not having a full roster on the field for a majority of the game will not have player stats recorded. Only the win/loss will count. 3.3.1.6. A team will forfeit their series if they do not have a full roster of 4 players at the start time of the match, and it has been more than 72 hours since the team has a full roster of 4 players. Admins reserve the right to override this rule. 3.3.1.6.1. If a player was waiver released from the team, the team has 72 hours since the waiver-release was posted before the team will forfeit any matches with a full roster. 3.3.2. 3.3.2 The following scenarios should result in a remake: 3.3.2.1. Each team will be guaranteed one server remake request per two games in a series. This request is meant for ping issues, and does not include the server remakes mentioned in the sections below. More server remake requests are allowed, but do not have to be given. 3.3.2.2. A server can can be remade if a player has connection issues, if a player disconnects (intentionally or unintentionally), or if a player joins the lobby or game in the middle of an active game, and it is both within the first minute of the game and before a goal has been scored. 3.3.2.3. If an eligible person in the lobby who is not meant to be playing in the active game joins the game before the kickoff timer starts, the server should be remade to ensure kickoffs are fair. 3.3.2.3.1. If a person not associated with either franchise joins a game, the game should immediately be restarted, and if the person who joined is a player, that player will receive a 1 match day suspension. 3.3.2.4. If the game server crashes while the game is in regulation, and no goals have been scored, then the game should be restarted from the beginning. 3.3.2.4.1. If the game server crashes in regulation and goals have been scored, the server should be remade and the scoreline is recreated. The last goal to recreate the scoreline should be scored at whatever time was left on the clock. No stats will be recorded for this game.


 3.3.2.4.2. If the server crashes in overtime, the game will be restarted and played until a single goal is scored. No stats will be recorded for this game. 3.3.2.4.3. If both teams agree, the game can be restarted regardless of progress. Substitutions will be allowed and stats will be recorded. 3.3.2.5. If a game is ever being restarted from the beginning, substitutions will be allowed. If a game is being remade from the middle or in overtime, the same roster that was playing must keep playing. 3.3.3. After a game has concluded, when the 60 seconds have expired, or all 6 active players have readied up, both teams are deemed ready to play the next game. A team may call for a server remake in this time, and the normal forfeit timer will start (see 3.2.3). 3.3.4. If a team believes that their opponent has broken an above rule and wants to claim a forfeit, they must take evidence to prove so and submit their case through Modmail. Take screenshots or any other useful information at the time of the incident, leave the game, and start the next game. 3.3.4.1. If the opposing team wants to contest the forfeit, they should also use Modmail. The series should be continued by starting the next game while they wait for an answer. 3.3.4.2. If the forfeit is ruled invalid, or no ruling has been issued by the time the series is over, an extra game must be played following the series. Staff may give special instructions on how to play this extra game. 3.3.4.3. If the match being played is a playoff match, do not play anymore until the issue has been resolved in Modmail. 3.3.5. A team whose opponent forfeits a game may choose to decline the forfeit only if it was deemed unintentional by Modmail. 3.3.6. Teams are allowed to stream or record games in any way they would like. RSC only asks that any streams involving league games be “safe for work” and do not use any RSC assets. RSC reserves the right to broadcast your games on our official Twitch/Youtube channels and to be able to spectate for the purpose of (re)broadcasting any league games.

#### 3.4. Post-Match Procedures

 3.4.1. It is the responsibility of all franchises to report the scores of each of their teams’ matches in the appropriate score reporting channels. 3.4.2. Players are responsible for having their in-game name during official RSC matches match exactly with their RSC registered discord name. If their in-game name does not match their discord name exactly, they will receive a name change strike. Any player who receives 3 name change strikes will face a one match suspension.


 3.4.3. For all match days, both GMs and all players present at the match must ensure that valid replays for all 4 games are saved and submitted within 48 hours of the match's score report being submitted per 3.4.1. 3.4.3.1. If valid replays for all 4 games are not submitted in the 48 hour window then the statistics for all missing replays from the match will be forfeited and only the win/loss result for the games with missing replays will stand. 3.4.3.1.1. If all players on a team are on console and cannot submit replays, then submitting screenshots will be acceptable. They will not be penalized with replay strikes unless they do not submit screenshots. 3.4.3.1.2. If replays cannot be submitted but someone can submit screenshots, the screenshots can be used for statistics purposes. Replay strikes will still be given if only screenshots are provided, unless the criteria in 3.4.3.1.1 is met. 3.4.3.1.3. The GMs of any team with missing replays will be given a replay strike. You can earn one replay strike per match. Accumulation of 4 replay strikes for a GM will result in an Admin vote on the GM's removal. 3.4.3.1.4. All players present for a match that has a missing replay will be given a replay strike. Each player will earn the replay strike. You can earn one replay strike per match. Accumulation of 3 replays strikes for any one player will result in a one match suspension. 3.4.3.1.4.1. Players on IR and players on a team who were not at the match night in question will not receive a replay strike.

## 4. Franchise Rules

#### 4.1. General Managers

 4.1.1. General Managers (GMs) will be selected by the Admins from candidates who have requested to be considered for such a position. 4.1.2. General Managers must be mature, positive, and focused on helping their players and teams succeed. 4.1.3. GMs are expected to: 4.1.3.1. Know, follow, and share the rules of RSC. 4.1.3.2. Show leadership and be a positive role model for all players. 4.1.3.3. Devote time to managing their franchise properly. 4.1.3.4. Draft players wisely. 4.1.3.5. Make transactions that benefit their franchise. 4.1.3.6. Help players who have questions or want to learn. 4.1.3.7. Be responsible for the actions and behaviors of their players.


 4.1.3.8. GMs shall act in accordance with all communiqués from the admins. 4.1.4. Admins reserve the right to remove a GM at any point, without warning, if they feel that a GM is not meeting the above expectations. 4.1.5. The position of General Manager is considered a privilege, not a right, for all members of RSC who achieve the position. All GMs are reviewed following incidents of concern and after every season, and may lose their position to other candidates if the GM has shown themselves to be unable to meet these expectations. 4.1.6. GMs are not required to be a player for their team, though they are permitted to be. The GM must express their desire to be a player before the signup deadline. 4.1.7. GMs are the ultimate authority for their franchise. GMs can delegate responsibilities to other members of their franchise. However, the GM will always be the main point of contact with Admins, League Staff, and other franchises for all league activities. 4.1.8. GMs are permitted to cut themselves from their team at any time post draft, if they wish. A GM who does this will not become a free agent, but they will be eligible to return to their own roster during the season. 4.1.8.1. A GM who wishes to return to their roster must treat this transaction the same as if they were picking up a free agent. (see 4.4.7 and 5.3.4)

#### 4.2. Assistant General Managers

 4.2.1. GMs can nominate assistant general managers to join them in managing their franchise. 4.2.1.1. Franchises are allowed 2 AGMs max. GMs are not required to fill their AGM positions. 4.2.1.2. Draft Eligible players may not be AGMs. 4.2.2. AGMs follow the same elevate-roles rules as GMs 4.2.3. A GM is allowed to replace AGM one time per AGM their franchise is allowed by the rules. For example, if a franchise is allowed two AGMs by the rules, they are also allowed two switches of who is AGM per season. These switches are counted from the release of the tier maker to elevated roles until the end of the season. 4.2.4. If a GM takes over midseason, they are allowed to switch all of their allotted AGMs one time, without using their allotted switches. 4.2.5. If a GM has less than their allotted AGMs, appointing AGMs to reach the number allowed does not count as one of their switches. 4.2.6. For all intents and purposes, all GM rules in section 4.1 apply to AGMs as well. 4.2.6.1. Excluding rule 4.1.7. AGMs are at the authority of their GM. 4.2.6.2. Excluding rule 4.1.8. AGMs must be signed to their franchise or non-playing, and cannot be re-signed as an AGM.


 4.2.6.2.1. Admins will allow a Free Agent to act as an AGM for a franchise, and all AGM signings must adhere to other existing rules. 4.2.6.2.2. On the day that transactions open, all AGMs that are currently FA must be signed to their franchise. 4.2.6.2.3. Excluding rule 4.1.8.1 AGMs must be drafted as a draft eligible, and cannot be directly signed to a franchise.

#### 4.3. Franchise & Team Structure

 4.3.1. GMs have final say on who will play in each match for their teams. They may delegate this role as desired. 4.3.2. Teams will still be allowed to play should a team suffer a player loss outside of their control, or following a waiver-release. 4.3.2.1. The only transactions allowed for such teams in the regular season are signing free agents and promoting players from a lower league. 4.3.2.2. The MMR of the player or players lost is still active against the league MMR cap until a replacement player or players are found. 4.3.2.3. Teams will be granted an exception to sign a player to restore their roster to 4 after Roster Lock, if a player leaves or is removed and the team is found to have no wrongdoing. 4.3.3. Each tier has an MMR cap. Every team in the tier has the same cap. 4.3.3.1. The caps are adjusted at the beginning of every season, prior to the draft. 4.3.3.2. Teams are not allowed to exceed their caps at any point after Roster Lock. 4.3.3.2.1. Franchises with premier teams may only have one 1st Round MMR player on their premier team at a time during the regular and postseason. 4.3.3.3. The exact values of the caps and the formulas are provided to the franchises.

#### 4.4. Player Contracts

 4.4.1. A player’s RSC MMR is recalculated each off-season. 4.4.1.1. Players on-contract will have their RSC MMR updated as well. 4.4.2. Drafted players are signed for two seasons, at roster lock. 4.4.3. Free agents are signed for two seasons. 4.4.3.1. Re-signed free agents (free agents who have completed their initial contract with a franchise) are re-signed for 1 season. 4.4.4. GMs are signed for one season. 4.4.5. Any free agent or GM signing requires proof of agreement to be posted in the franchise's transaction channel. 4.4.6. Contracts signed mid-season will have the current season count towards the contract, regardless of how much time remains in the season.


 4.4.7. Players who sign a new contract with a franchise cannot be cut or traded until two match days have passed, including pre-season. 4.4.7.1. In the event of a match postponement, a player's team must have actually played the match for that match day to be counted towards this two match day requirement. 4.4.8. Players may not choose to leave a team while under contract, but may request to be cut or traded, subject to their franchise’s approval. 4.4.9. Players may only play for the franchise they are contracted to. 4.4.10. Contracts end at 11:59pm ET on the day after the last official RSC Championship event, and all players with expiring contracts become regular free agents. 4.4.11. When a player’s contract ends they can agree to renew the contract with their existing franchise for another season. 4.4.11.1. If they do not renew with their previous franchise, they can’t sign with that franchise until two match days have passed. Note, this player can still be drafted by that franchise. 4.4.12. Players who go inactive between the draft lottery and the end of the RSC season will become former players, have their contracts considered incomplete, be marked as inactive, and may only return to the league in the current season in accordance with 5.6.10 (inactivity check), or a Draft Eligible player in the following season. 4.4.13. A player on-contract who starts the season in a tier their franchise does not have a team for will have their contract completed. 4.4.13.1. They may agree to be promoted and re-sign with the same franchise, or become a free agent. 4.4.14. A player who's MMR is adjusted by the league after numbers lock and who is currently on contract to a franchise may be immediately cut without restriction. Refer to 3.3.1.6 for the player replacement time period.

## 5. Transaction Rules

#### 5.1. General transaction rules

 5.1.1. Transactions open during the offseason on a date determined by the Admins. 5.1.2. Transactions close 9:59pm ET, 2 match days before the start of playoffs. 5.1.2.1. All teams must have a full roster of 4 players when transactions close, excluding any circumstances covered by 4.3.2.3 5.1.3. Any transaction requests posted before 9:30pm ET on a match day will be valid for that match day, provided that they are posted in the appropriate transaction channel, with all needed evidence, and satisfy all roster and other transaction rules. 5.1.4. Transaction requests posted at or after 9:30pm ET on a match day will be handled as follows:


 5.1.4.1. Temporary free agent contract requests will be invalid 5.1.4.2. In-franchise substitutions will be valid 5.1.4.3. Other valid transactions (trades, cuts, signings, etc.) will be processed after that day's matches complete and before the 10pm ET on the next match day. 5.1.5. All trades are subject to admin review and approval.

#### 5.2. Trades

 5.2.1. Players on-contract may be traded between teams, with proof of all franchises involved agreeing and pending league approval. 5.2.1.1. Trades may not allow a team to exceed the MMR cap. 5.2.1.2. This is a trade of the player and their contract. Player MMR and the length of their contract will not change during a trade. 5.2.1.3. A player who was drafted can be traded as if they were a contracted player during the pre-season up until roster lock. 5.2.1.4. A player can be traded and promoted at the same time. 5.2.2. Draft picks are allowed to be traded. 5.2.2.1. Only picks for the upcoming season can be traded except during the offseason, when draft picks for the next two seasons can be traded. 5.2.2.2. Every franchise with a Premier team must retain one first round pick. 5.2.2.3. All draft picks may be traded, but may not all be available to utilize in the draft if the pool of draft eligible players ends before that pick can be made. 5.2.2.4. All draft picks that were obtained via trade in tiers where either franchise no longer has a team are forfeited. The "ghost" draft pick will be void/skipped. 5.2.3. Admins may remove a franchise’s ability to trade future picks if there is a reasonable doubt, accompanied with evidence, that the GM or a franchise itself will return in the following season. (see 5.1.5) 5.2.4. Only future-season 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 5th round draft picks can be traded. 5.2.5. Franchises must have a minimum set of picks for the next upcoming season. These restrictions do not apply to franchises in the off season. 5.2.5.1. Franchises must have at least one 1st round draft pick in all but one tier. 5.2.5.2. Franchises must have at least one 2nd round draft pick (or two picks better than or equal to a 2nd) in all but one tier. 5.2.5.3. Franchises must have at least one 3rd round draft pick (or three picks better than or equal to a 3rd) in all but two tiers. 5.2.5.4. Franchises must have at least one 4th round draft pick (or four picks better than or equal to a 4th) in all but two tiers. 5.2.5.5. Franchises must have at least one 5th round draft pick (or five picks better than or equal to a 5th) in all but two tiers.


 5.2.5.6. All franchises must retain at least two of their first four picks in each tier.

#### 5.3. Cuts

 5.3.1. Players on-contract are subject to be cut from their franchise at any time, and for any reason (excluding times defined by 4.4.7) 5.3.2. Players who are cut in the regular season will go through a waiver period (see 5.4). 5.3.2.1. Players who are cut prior to roster lock do not go on waivers. 5.3.3. Cut players who are not claimed on waivers become free agents. 5.3.4. A cut player cannot be signed back to the same franchise until two regular season match days have passed. 5.3.5. No cuts are allowed to be made between roster lock and the first match day of the regular season. 5.3.6. Players on-contract may also be waiver-released by their franchise at any time, and for any reason. Waiver-releasing a player will start the waiver period at the time of the transaction, but will allow the team to retain the player until the end of the waiver period. A replacement player is not required at the time of this transaction. 5.3.6.1. A waiver-released player may be cut at any time prior to the end of the waiver period when a replacement player is obtained by the team. 5.3.6.2. A waiver-released player may not substitute for any team outside of their franchise until they are cut. 5.3.6.3. A player may not be waiver-released any later than 24 hours before the end of the last waiver period of the season. 5.3.7. Players who have not made an effort to play with their team in the preseason for two match days may be given an absent tag by their franchise, with proof that the player is unable to play. A player given an absent tag will be held in free agency, until they are placed on waivers after match day four.

#### 5.4. Waivers

 5.4.1. A player claimed on waivers can only be claimed onto the corresponding tier the player was relegated or cut from. 5.4.2. Waiver order will be determined by the team’s record, inverse to the tier in which the transaction takes place. Waiver order will be updated after every 4th match day, starting match day four. 5.4.2.1. Waivers at the start of the regular season will be based on the inverse of the order each franchise uses their first pick in the tier. 5.4.3. Waivers will end every Sunday and Wednesday at 12:00pm ET. A player that is placed on waivers will be on a waiver period until the closest date. 5.4.3.1. If a player is sent to waivers less than 24 hours before a waiver period ends, they will also be on the next waiver period.


 5.4.4. A valid waiver claim must be posted, as defined in the transaction channels. If you post an invalid claim, your claim will be skipped over. 5.4.4.1. Franchises will be notified by a Transaction Manager following the end of a waiver period whether or not you have won your claim. 5.4.4.2. You will have until 9:00pm ET to notify your players they are cut, and give the Transaction Manager the okay to process the transaction. 5.4.4.3. If a franchise fails to notify a Transaction Manager to process the winning claim by 9:00pm ET, your claim will be skipped over. 5.4.5. Once a waiver claim is made, that team will be moved to last in the order, until the waiver order is updated as stated by rule 5.4.2. 5.4.6. Under no circumstance will a GM be put on waivers.

#### 5.5. Promotion and Relegation

 5.5.1. A promotion will adjust a player’s contract MMR to the minimum of the tier they are promoted to. 5.5.2. A relegation will adjust a player’s contract MMR to the minimum of the tier they were relegated to, unless it is the tier which they were originally placed in. If so, their MMR will be reverted back to their original placement. 5.5.3. To promote or relegate a player within a franchise, the franchise must declare which player is being replaced on the team via another promotion/relegation or a cut as part of the transaction. 5.5.3.1. The player must agree to this transaction in writing before it can take effect. 5.5.3.2. In the event that a relegated player is claimed by another franchise, the original franchise is still permitted to promote the initially declared player, or to sign a free agent. 5.5.4. If a player is promoted pre-draft, they must remain on the team they were promoted to, unless they are cut. 5.5.4.1. If a player promoted pre-draft is cut in the preseason, they may not be signed by their original franchise. They must sign with a different franchise first. 5.5.5. If a player is promoted post-draft, they will remain in the tier they were promoted to unless they are cut or relegated. 5.5.6. If a promoted player is cut, they go on waivers for their original tier. They are eligible to play for the franchise they were cut from in their original tier, but the franchise must still adhere to 5.3.4. 5.5.7. A player who is promoted or relegated must remain in their new tier for two match days. 5.5.7.1. In the event of a match postponement, a player's team must have actually played the match for that match day to be counted towards this two matchday requirement. 5.5.8. A player can only be relegated one tier at a time. 5.5.9. Relegated players are put on a waiver period.


 5.5.9.1. Each franchise is allowed 3 relegations without a player going on waivers, per season. 5.5.10. If a promoted player is traded, they retain their contract and must stay in the tier they were promoted to.

#### 5.6. Free Agents and Permanent Free Agents

 5.6.1. A free agent has the choice to sign with any franchise that offers. 5.6.2. A FA or permFA may sign a temporary contract with a franchise for one match day. This player’s contract MMR replaces the absent player’s contract MMR. 5.6.2.1. A player has the right to choose between multiple temporary contracts, and to deny them as well. 5.6.3. When substituting a player with a FA/permFA, the following conditions must be met for the substitution to be legal: 5.6.3.1. Under no circumstance may a team exceed their MMR cap. 5.6.3.2. The FA/permFA cannot substitute for the same team two times in a row. They must sub for another franchise first. 5.6.3.2.1. Alternatively, if a franchise uses a different FA/permFA afterwards, or if three match days pass, the franchise is eligible to use the same FA/permFA for another match. 5.6.3.3. The player being substituted off of the team may not be substituted out for more than two consecutive match days. 5.6.4. The replaced player cannot play on their team that match day. 5.6.5. The substitute must play in at least one game of the match. 5.6.5.1. If the team fails to play the substitute in at least one game, then that team will forfeit their last win in the series. In the event that the team doesn't win any game in the series, then the last game will be forfeited. 5.6.6. Permanent free agents cannot sign with any team and are only permitted to sign temporary free agent contracts. 5.6.7. Permanent free agents will have their MMRs adjusted mid-season to value them as accurately as possible. 5.6.8. New players may be added into RSC mid-season as FAs, should a special circumstance arise and be approved by the admins. 5.6.9. Three days before the 4th, 8th, and 11th match days respectively, every free agent is DM'ed. FAs who do not respond by those match days respectively will be marked as inactive and will not be able to play until they respond to the official DM. If they respond within 2 weeks from the message being sent, they will be placed on waivers. 5.6.10. There will be two "inactive checks" during the season. The first is following MD2, and the second is following MD8. FAs will be given 5 days amount of time to respond to the inactive checks. FAs who do not respond in 5 days amount of time will be marked as inactive and will not be able to play until they respond to the official inactive check. If they fail


 the inactive check but then respond within 2 weeks from the message being sent, they will be placed on waivers. 5.6.11. If there is ever fewer than one active free agent per three teams in a tier, and permanent free agents are interested in becoming regular free agents, permanent free agents may be promoted to regular free agency given the following conditions: 5.6.11.1. If the tier has 12 or less teams, at least 3 permanent free agents need to be interested in converting. 5.6.11.2. If the tier has between 13 and 24 teams, at least 4 permanent free agents need to be interested in converting. 5.6.11.3. If the tier has between 25 and 32 teams, at least 5 permanent free agents need to be interested in converting. 5.6.11.4. This conversion will happen at admin's discretion, but the earliest it can be done is after MD4. 5.6.11.5. Permanent free agents will be promoted in order of those who have been permanent free agents the longest taking priority. 5.6.11.6. Any permanent free agents moved to normal free agency via this method will immediately go on waivers. 5.6.11.7. Only permanent free agents who were permanent free agents when the tier was confirmed to have less than 1/3 free agents per team will be eligible to be promoted to regular free agency.

#### 5.7. Substitutions

 5.7.1. A player on a lower-tier team may fill in as a sub for a team in a higher tier, within their franchise. 5.7.1.1. Players may not sub for a team in a lower tier for any reason. 5.7.2. A player may sub up to a team within their franchise, even if they play with a different team in their franchise at a different point in that match day. 5.7.3. A player who subs up to a higher tier in their franchise is not obligated to play a game that matchday. 5.7.4. Players may substitute up from a lower tier during the playoffs, following the same rules as the regular season, with the following changes: 5.7.4.1. A player may sub for a team once during the entire playoffs, for an entire match night or fraction thereof. 5.7.4.2. In order to play in a series, a player must be on that team from the start of a series; they may not switch teams during concurrently-running matches. 5.7.4.3. A player may play with their own team during any playoff night, even if they play with a different team in their franchise at a different point in that night. 5.7.5. No games will be delayed to benefit players who are substituting with another team.


#### 5.8. Inactive Reserve

 5.8.1. Each team has an Inactive Reserve (IR) spot. Franchises can place a player on IR with the player’s permission, and acquire another player onto the four player roster. A player on IR cannot play in any matches. A player on IR does not pause their contract. 5.8.1.1. Players must have been on the team for at least two regular season match days to be eligible for IR 5.8.1.2. Players cannot be placed on IR after the transaction deadline 5.8.2. A player on IR will not have their MMR count towards their team’s MMR cap. 5.8.3. A player on IR cannot come off IR until four match days have passed. 5.8.3.1. A player on IR cannot come off IR after the transaction deadline. 5.8.3.2. In the event of a match postponement, a player's team must have actually played the match for that match day to be counted towards this four matchday requirement. 5.8.4. At any time prior to 9:59pm ET on the fourth match day of ineligibility, a player on IR may be traded to another franchise. 5.8.4.1. The traded player's four match day period remains unchanged and they will be on the receiving franchise's IR spot until the four match day period has expired. 5.8.4.2. The receiving franchise must show understanding that the traded player remains ineligible to play until the four match day period has expired and what their next eligible match day is in their transactions channel. The player may still request to be taken off of IR after that match day per 5.8.5.1. 5.8.4.3. After an IR player's four match day period, they can only be traded to another team's active roster. They cannot be traded to another team's IR spot. 5.8.4.4. All IR trades must adhere to the guidelines set forth in 5.2.1 and its sub-rules. 5.8.5. After the four match day period, a franchise may cut a player on the team roster to bring a player on IR back, or cut the player on IR directly. 5.8.5.1. After the four match day period, a player on IR may request that their franchise take them off of IR. The franchise must bring the player off of IR or cut them within 48 hours. 5.8.6. If a player ends the season on IR, they will automatically be removed from IR in the off season. 5.8.7. Any AGM currently under contract or re-signing with a franchise can be marked as "Redshirt" by their franchise at any point while transactions are open. See 5.1.2. An AGM must give permission in order to be Redshirted. 5.8.7.1. A Redshirt AGM does not pause their contract. 5.8.7.2. AGMs that are Redshirted prior to the draft become a 6th round keeper in their tier. 5.8.7.3. Redshirt AGMS are not eligible to play until the next season.


 5.8.7.4. Playing AGMs may still use a team's IR spot as normal.

#### 5.9. Offseason Transactions

 5.9.1. Offseason transactions open one week before the draft at 12:00pm ET, and close one day before the draft at 11:59pm ET. 5.9.1.1. Cuts and re-signings close three days before the draft at 12:00pm ET. 5.9.1.2. Free agent signings and pick trades close the day before the draft at 11:59pm ET.
